# Google Summer of Code (GSoC) 2018 Report

## Achievements  
Over the course of GSoC 2018, I developed a simulation of evolution using Contextual Geometric Structures (CGS). This includes creating a way to visualize how conceptual categories can exhibit variation among individuals in a population, as well as their cultural evolution. The code in this repository is built from scratch. The things I have accomplished so far include:  

### Project Accomplishments

1. a paramaterized visual simulation using the Blender rendering engine (https://www.blender.org/foundation/) with an object- oriented approach that easily allows for future modifications.

2. a *k*NN algorithm that creates a continuum of images, and determines where on this continuum new members should be placed.

3. a Genetic Algorithm (GA) that simulates interactions between agents and concepts, and allows for cultural evolution to be simulated over multiple generations (discrete periods of time).

4. a dataset of shapes and images to be used for the *k*NN algorithm. This will be released as open-source data in a stable repository.

5. a library that pulls single words, multiple words, or words at random for the user to manipulate. These words can either be drawn from the Google *n*-gram dataset (https://books.google.com/ngrams), or generated at random. Nothing that has the speed or memory complexity currently exists like this in other python libraries. The library will be uploaded to PyPi (https://pypi.org/).

6. an output of data generated by the simulation that shows average fitness, minimum fitness, maximum fitness, and standard deviation of fitness in a population.

### Things to be done in the future  

1. Integrate cultures visualized in the Blender simulation with the data generated by the genetic algorithm (in real-time).

2. Import external files as libraries rather than running scripts externally from the Blender file.

3. Compatibility with Windows (currently runs on Mac and Linux).

4. Extend genetic algorithm to higher-dimensional representations of a culture.
 
